[Integrations] Alerting Rule Template common page (#4072)
elastic/docs-content: reference/fleet/alerting-rule-templates.md

---
applies_to:
  stack: ga 9.3
  serverless: ga
products:
  - id: fleet
  - id: elastic-agent
navigation_title: Alerting rule templates
---

# Alerting Rule Templates [alerting-rule-templates]

> Alerting rule templates are out-of-the-box, preconfigured rule definitions maintained by Elastic integration authors. They help you start monitoring in minutes—no queries to write, no thresholds to figure out—by providing curated {{esql}} queries, sensible defaults, and recommended thresholds tailored to each integration. Templates are available from an integration’s Assets and open a prefilled rule creation form you can adjust and enable.

Author: Rephrased.

## Prerequisites
	
- Install or upgrade to the latest version of the integration that includes alerting rule templates.
- Ensure the relevant data stream is enabled and ingesting data for the template you plan to use.
- {{stack}} 9.2.1 or later.
- Appropriate {{kib}} role privileges to create and manage rules in the current space.

## How to use the Alerting Rule Templates

> Alerting rule templates come with recommended, pre-populated values. To use them:

Reviewer: these instructions will become out of date v quickly (by 9.3). let's open a ticket to remind us to update them with the new UI flow for the next release.

---
applies_to:

>   stack: ga 9.3

Reviewer 2: I believe the correct version is 9.2.1 @muthu-mps could you please verify this is correct?

  serverless: ga
products:
  - id: fleet
  - id: elastic-agent
navigation_title: Alerting rule templates
---

# Alerting Rule Templates [alerting-rule-templates]

> Alerting rule templates are out-of-the-box, preconfigured rule definitions maintained by Elastic integration authors. They help you start monitoring in minutes—no queries to write, no thresholds to figure out—by providing curated {{esql}} queries, sensible defaults, and recommended thresholds tailored to each integration. Templates are available from an integration’s Assets and open a prefilled rule creation form you can adjust and enable.

Reviewer 2: Do we want to mention that while  everything is preconfigured but you can customize anything if you wish. Or we want to keep the mention of customization below only?

## Prerequisites
	
- Install or upgrade to the latest version of the integration that includes alerting rule templates.
- Ensure the relevant data stream is enabled and ingesting data for the template you plan to use.
- {{stack}} 9.2.1 or later.
- Appropriate {{kib}} role privileges to create and manage rules in the current space.
- Optional: One or more connectors (for example, email, Slack, webhook) to route alert notifications.

## How to use the Alerting Rule Templates

Alerting rule templates come with recommended, pre-populated values. To use them:

1. In {{kib}}, go to **{{manage-app}}** > **{{integrations}}**.
1. Find and open the integration.
1. On the integration page, open the **Assets** tab and expand **Alerting rule templates** to view all available templates for that integration.
1. Select a template to open a prefilled Create rule form.
1. Review and (optionally) customize the prefilled settings, then save and enable the rule.

> When you click a template, you get a prefilled **Create Rules** form. You can use the template to create your own custom alerting rule by adjusting values, setting up connectors, and defining rule actions.

Reviewer 2: "click a template" or "click on a template" ?

---
applies_to:
  stack: ga 9.2.1
  serverless: ga
products:
  - id: fleet
  - id: elastic-agent
navigation_title: Alerting rule templates
---

# Alerting rule templates [alerting-rule-templates]

Alerting rule templates are out-of-the-box alert definitions that come bundled with [Elastic integrations](integration-docs://reference/index.md)), enabling users to quickly set up monitoring without writing queries from scratch. 

Templates help you start monitoring in minutes by providing curated {{esql}} queries and recommended thresholds tailored to each integration. 

> Once the integration is installed, these templates are automatically available in Kibana's alerting interface with a prefilled rule creation form that you can tailor to your needs.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
After the integration is installed, these templates are automatically available in Kibana's alerting interface with a prefilled rule creation form that you can adapt to your needs.
```

Although these templates are managed by Elastic, any alert created from them is owned by the customer and will not be modified by Elastic, even if the templates change.

:::{important}

> Although the alerts can be used as provided, threshold values should always be evaluated in the context of your specific environment. Applying the predefined thresholds without adjustment may result in an excessive number of alerts.

Reviewer 2: Depending on how you adjust the thresholds, you may have too many alerts or your alerts may not trigger when you would expect them to trigger
